After vertex shader, all vertices must be in NDC, normalized device coordinates. Goes from -1.0 to 1.0 in OpenGl.
5 important coordinate systems:
  Local (object) space - coordinates are relative to local origin
  World space - coordinates are relative to some global origin 
  View (eye/camera) space - coordinates are relative to the camera's PoV
  Clip space - -1.0 to 1.0, determines which vertices will end up on screen. Perspective transforms are applied here. This is output of vert shaders
                it's called clip space because coordinates outside this range are thrown away ("clipped")
  Screen space - coordinates are in the range of the viewport coordinates. Results are sent to rasterize and turned into fragments.
  
Vertices start in local space, then usually converted to the following 3 depending on what operations you need, then end up in screen space.

Matrices:
	Model: local->world
	View: world->viewport
	Projection: view->clip. We define a range of coordinates in each direction that get mapped to NDC, then coordinates outside NDC are clipped. Matrix defines a frustrum in 3D.
				Once transformed to clip space, perspective division is performed (divide positions by homogenous w). We don't have to worry about this, it's automatically performed at end of vertex step.
	Viewport: clip->screen, OpenGL applies this automatically.
	
Orthographic:
	Frustrum is a rectangular prism. Just clip based purely on width, height, distance.
	Directly maps coordinates to NDC, doesn't change the w component so perspective division has no effect.
		
Perspective:
	Distant objects are smaller. Parallel lines converge. Unlike ortho, manupales w which gets higher as the object farther. Dividing by w essentially compresses the distance between vertices.
	w goes from -1.0 to 1.0
	out = (x/w, y/w, z/w)
	
v_clip = proj * view * model * v_local. This is what we assign to gl_Position when outputing from vertex shader.

After vertex, OpenGL will automatically perform perspective division and map those to screen space. It gets the NDC->screen transform based on glViewPort parameters.
	
OpenGL is right-handed. THIS MEANS THAT FROM THE VIEW PERSPECTIVE, POSITIVE Z IS TOWARD THE CAMERA. But NDC ARE LEFT HANDED. DX is also left handed.